# AI-Detection-Analysis

## Summary:
        
This project aims to determine the most accurate AI detection software based on the ones readily available online. It uses OpenAI’s GPT-3.0 model API to generate essays based on a particular prompt and tone. Each of these essays is then checked on several websites using either an API or selenium webdriver. The scores measure how much the AI detector believes the writing to be generated by an AI model. The same process is used for human-written essays with the essays being found online on an open source platform. The results of these scores can be analyzed through several graphing functions, including the mean, standard deviation, and distribution of various categories. 



## Prerequisites:

### Installations
- Install the correct version of ChromeDriver, if needed. 
   - For instance, if the computer currently runs Chrome version 113, download the corresponding ChromeDriver 113. This additional installation must only be done if the code does not work initially, giving a JSONDecodeError.
   - All versions of ChromeDriver can be downloaded at sites.google.com/chromium.org/driver/downloads.
- Install OpenAI and selenium packages:
   - pip install openai
   - pip install selenium
- Import all necessary modules and libraries, which are provided within the code.




## Usage:

### Running Checker Functions

- Checker functions may not properly run on different devices if the correct version of ChromeDriver is not installed.
- All checker functions were previously run to gather the data necessary for the analysis.
- A sample is included under the functions that will generate 3 essays and call each checker function to serve as a small-scale example of how the webdriver works.
- After a certain amount of time, writer_checker will cease to function because the free trial of the API will have run out. A new trial must be created to change this.
Generator Methods
- The two generator methods are generate_gpt and generate_davinci
- Generate_gpt is not being used because this model has been given a rate limit to put a cap on the amount of content generated. Thus, it is unusable for our project.
- Generate_davinci will generate one essay for each title and tone inputted.
- After a certain amount of time this code will cease to work, because the OpenAI free API account has either reached its rate limit or expired. A new account must be created to change this.


### Main Generation and Checking Methods: generate_essays and human_essay_checker 

- These methods were initially used to generate and check 400 AI essays, as well as check 70 human essays. This process took numerous hours.
- The csv files containing all AI detection scores for each website are included in the submission. The AI-generated texts’ scores and human-generated texts’ scores are stored in the ai_results_2.csv and human_results.csv files, respectively.
- The human essays checked are stored in the human_essays.csv file.
- Run all checker functions and generate_davinci before running these main methods.
- To demonstrate generation and checking, much shorter lists of prompts and tones have been set as variables for the generate_essays, so you can run the function and the results will be outputted into the ai_results_example.csv. You can also alter the prompt_list and tone_list variables to generate your own specific essays. 
- You can also run human_essay_checker which will check essays from human_essays_example.csv, and place results into human_results_example.csv.


### Graphing Functions

- Run all graphing functions before running the main graph() function.
- The main interactive graphing function will prompt for user input regarding the type of analysis, whether the text is AI-generated or human-written, and the category for comparison. 
- Based on user input, it will return whatever graph the user desires.
- The graphs are created with data inside the ai_results_2.csv and human_results.csv files.
